- Shall I push the new block syntax?
	- marijn: Yes, seems harmless enough, we'll "see how it goes"
- Replace for with block
	- break, cont, etc
	- graydon: this was all discussed
	- nmatsakis: 
		we could add another kind of proto (loopblk) that permits break, cont, etc
		wraps result in a special tag
- nmatsakis: Been working on cleaning up the task library
- interfaces:
	- marijn: making good progress on interfaces, starting to Just Work
	- method resolution (compile-time) quite a bit slower this way
	- added a lot more vectors, causing more malloc/free
	- long term perf graph might help for monitoring perf regression
	- maybe just exposing all the data we have
- rustbot:
	- graydon: we're not getting "multiple builds" anymore
	- msg broker was sending multiple build requests, causing multiple builds
	- reseting the poll server seemed to solve this
	- maybe we can use an EC2 cluster to achieve better latency, more builds
	- currently very limited testing of ia32
	- we could perhaps use multiple bots per machine as build is not particularly parallel
	- perhaps we could just ignore stage3, or not build it
		- change stage3 to once per day if at all?
	- EC2 is expensive ($$), Cloudkick or Rackspace is better
		- constant on (like rustbot) is not good on EC2
	- graydon: one other problem with virtualized machines:
		- linux machines super easy, windows hard, mac impossible
	- maybe testing linux is enough
	- marijn: get better control over work queue of bots, allow to cancel jobs etc
	- graydon: all bots are listening to one another, in an async. comm. pool 
		- easy for bots to listen to each other and if one fails they could all fail
		- maybe not a good idea, interesting to know if one platform fails
	- add a command for rustbot to edit work queue
- graydon: working on documentation drift
	- wants docs to autogenerate whenever we commit
	- have a tool, rustdoc, that is evolving and would allow
		- command line query support for documentation
		- would allow emacs modes to better integrate for documentation
- Release management
	- shall we hold release until interfaces are in place?
		- new code would be shaky though
		- should discuss with bigger group
		- usable in another week, maybe can replace some objects
	- graydon: do we need objects + interfaces?
		- lots of overlap
		- marijn: pcwalton still plans to go fwd with classes
			- would integrate with interfaces and allow for classical patterns
			- current obj system doesn't add anything to new work
		- nmatsakis: I'm inclined to agree, obj system doesn't add a lot
		- ad-hoc per object extension largely unused, so not an imp't feature?
			- maybe used in the I/O system?
		- marijn: nominal records alongside structural ones?
			- better for recursive types
			- better for specializing interfaces
			- graydon: personally he likes keeping nominalness orthogonal
			- nmatsakis: I don't like having nominal and stuctural recs, 
				- but calling nominal records classes might be ok
			- graydon, marijn: absolutely do not want to give up structural records
	- timeline for release: this month
		- focus on the release
		- anything missing from issue milestones?
- nmatsakis: no copying proposal?
	- marijn approves
	- unique vectors are a pain
	- nmatsakis: I started work on converting compiler to use vec:map() etc
		- so that we know how well fixed-size arrays will work
		- but more to be done
