# Agenda 2014-10-07

* uint -> uintptr (brson) https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/161
* Hellgating (brson)
* Servo hi-pri/blockers (larsberg) https://github.com/servo/servo/issues/2853
* fott (aturon)
* RFC: unsafe/raw conventions (aturon) https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/240
* RFC: remove virtual structs (aturon) https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/341
* What is the name of this group of people? (brson)
* release/debug configure flags (nrc) - https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/17665
* cross-borrowing/borrow operator RFCs (nrc) - 
* how to link to RFCs (pnkfelix) - https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/360

# Attending

pcwalton, aturon, acrichto, nrc, zwarich, brson, steveklabnik

# Status

- brson: 0.12.0 release, automation
- acrichto: static vs const, cargo registry owners/authors

# Action Items

- pnkelix: take care of  https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/360 
- acrichto: merge https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/240
- brson: merge https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/341
- brson: merge https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/342

# Friend of the Tree

Alexis Beingessner (aka @Gankro) began contributing to Rust in July, and has already had a
major impact on several library-related areas. His main focus has been collections. He
[completely rewrote](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/17334) BTree, providing a
vastly more complete and efficient implementation. He proposed and implemented the new
[`Entry` API](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/216). He's written
[extensive new documentation](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/17802) for the
collections crate. He pitched in on [collections reform](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/235).

*And* he added collapse-all to rustdoc!

Alexis is, without a doubt, a FOTT.

# release/debug configure flags

https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/17665

- nrc: Even if we require 2-3 flags for an optimal build, I feel like that's too many. One word is ok -- anything more is a barrier to entry and an inconvenience.
- nrc: We discussed various options last week. E.g. turning off logging for release builds on Windows, parallel codegen etc -- there are even more options now.
- nrc: The question is how to provide simple profiles.
- nrc: I would like to not allow `./configure` by itself; you'll either have to pass `debug` or `release`
- nrc: That would give a good experience for both developers and distributors
- brson: It's not a standard thing to require an argument to configure, so we might get some pushback.
- acrichto: I've warmed up to this, but I think we shouldn't *require* a flag; by default you'd get debug. That way we work in the standard way.
- nrc: That's the alternative -- making one the default. The question of which should be default is hard. I think strcat is right that, although far more people will use rust for dev, it's not so important if they get long build times.
- pnkfelix: What if we made the default that, if you don't provide a flag, we announce loudly that the default is being used. In either scenario, we're educating users.
- nrc: If we have a default, I think we should do that.
- nrc: What makes me sympathetic to acrichto's perspective is that it's what LLVM does. But I don't want to rely on packagers to ensure that people have a good experience with Rust
- acrichto: It would be a shame if, when you first try to contribute to Rust, the first build takes an hour when it could have taken 20 minutes.
- acrichto: Easing the experience for new users is the most important case.
- nrc: Ultimately, we'll want new *users* of Rust even more than contributors, so the defaults should cater to them. I worry about people benchmarking on default configs
- pcwalton: I think about half of the published Rust benchmarks don't have optimization
- acrichto: But people will very quickly find this out -- asking whether you optimized it.
- brson: Don't have a strong opinion, but following precedent (LLVM) seems wise.
- pcwalton: FWIW, Firefox defaults to Release
- nrc: What does GCC do?
- pcwalton: Not sure if the question even makes sense there
- acrichto: It is true that, if I grabbed GCC and built it, I'd expect it to be fully optimized
- acrichto: Ok, let's set it to release by default (have modes "develop" and "release") and have a warning printout at the end of `./configure` if it's using the default
- brson: How do these umbrella flags interact with others?
- nrc: Any other explicit flag would override it.
- brson: So what are the flags, concretely?
- nrc: Default is "release". I'd prefer "develop" to "debug".
- acrichto: debug controls debuginfo
- brson: We have a switch for turning on debug mode, one for debug info
- acrichto: In Cargo, you either have [missed] or debug info
- nrc: For the Rust compiler at least, we want to be able to make these fine-grained choices
- nrc: Develop/debug would imply faster build for lower quality code
- pcwalton: I slightly prefer debug, because of precedence. Don't really care.
- nrc: There wouldn't be a release flag, since that's the default
- pnkfelix: You want a flag, to avoid the message
- acrichto: --enable-debug
- pnkfelix: That precedent holds even for umbrella flags? I'd prefer just --debug
[ some discussion about --disable-debug ]
- nrc: So, we'll do this, with release by default, and --enable-debug. I'll update the issue with the plan, and maybe implement.

# how to link to RFCs

https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/360

- pnkfelix: When people want to link to an RFC from the Rust repo, sometimes they link to the PR, while I link to the document itself. The link to the RFC document can become stale (when it becomes active). But the link to the PR won't link to the official document.
- pnkfelix: So, what should we do?
- acrichto: I've run into this in the past, and worried about it.
- brson: Could change active/complete procedure.
- pnkfelix: We could also update the PR to point to the most recent document.
- brson: There are some other changes we might want to make -- like the RFC numbers not matching the PR numbers.
- acrichto: The problem with linking to the PR is that it's not really the official document -- lots comments, etc.
- brson: The PR discussion won't be very interesting later on down the road -- you care about the RFC text.
- aturon: What about just distinguishing active/complete via a list -- say at the bottom of the README?
- brson: So should we move the rfcs out to the top level?
- [missed]: it's nice to have them nested, so they don't dominate the github display
pnkfelix to write RFC to: use PR numbers, merge into one directory, use README to track active

# Unsafe / raw conventions

https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/240

- aturon: conventions RFC from stabilizatino process. Existing API's inconsistent about where methods on raw reprs go. Sometimes they are methods, like from_raw, sometimes in `raw` submodule. Proposal is that unsafe methods aren't special cases so should live where methods live, so unsafe constructors should be static constructors on the type. Unchecked variants should use _unsafe suffix, or use use term 'raw' when converting between raw representations. Remaining use case for 'raw' mods is for defining 'raw' types.
- brson: what about issues of exposing internal representations through 'raw' methods
- aturon: out of scope for this RFC
- brson: what are examples from std for remaining 'raw' use cases
- aturon: core::raw defines underlying representation of language types. sync::raw provides basic low-level types
- acrichto: ctors of slices and str slices go where? can't be static methods
- aturon: want to allow inherent methods on built-in types
- acrichto: e.g. `[T]::ctor`? (with incredulity)
- aturon: (you can do this with UFCS: <[T]>::ctor)
- aturon: may have to be special cases. don't think those ctors justify a submodule. for built in types we may have to provide free functions.

# What do we call this group?

- brson: When we refer to the present group -- which is largely the one responsible for making decisions -- we don't have a name to use! We have the notion of the "core team", but most of the time it's *this group* that we want to talk about. What's the name?
- pcwalton: ISO Rust committee!
- pcwalton: More seriously: The Rust Team
- nrc: I think if we formalize it, that would work
- pcwalton: Rust Contributors, Rust Team, Core Team

# Remove virtual structs

https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/341

- aturon: want to remove. Wrote this RFC.

# Add keywords

https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/342

- acrichto: reserve abstract, final, override
- brson: I will merge

# uint -> uintptr

https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/161

- aturon: thought we were going to write up something on our stance here
- brson: so we're in agreement?
- zwarich: ww notes doesn't seem like it
- pcwalton: issues are: want arrays to be large enough to cover address range; and arrays indexable via int.
- acrichto: default integer *has* to be int.
- brson: mildest form renames 'uint' and 'int' to indicate they are pointer sized, but then you have to decide what to call the default int.
- pnkfelix: should the guide be promoting i32?
- pcwalton: no, don't prematurely optimize
- zwarich: C gets away with platform-defined sizes because it allows automatic conversions. in rust you would have to allow at least some.
- pcwalton: how do you index in java?
- pnkfelix: may insist that arrays are 4 gigabytes
- brson: leave this open until somebody writes a definitive statement?
- pcwalton: yes

... blathering ...

- brson: why isn't it tenable to have i32 be the default but uintptr/intptr for indexing?
- acrichto: difficult to know the impact

example of where library is using int for its backing storage (instead of more efficient i32/u32)
https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/16736



